Introduction:
For our project, we are aiming to see if weather conditions affect the price of corn in the US, 
specifically looking at the Corn Belt which is located in the Midwest. One of our datasets comes 
from USDA shows the production of corn from 00'-24'. We used this dataset to determine the top 
producers within the US. Following that we have a US Weather dataset from Kaggle that shows the 
daily weather condtions all over the Untied States from 92'-21'. We used this data to determine 
the weather conditions in the Corn Belt which is the area we are observing. Lastly, we had a dataset 
that covered the price of corn and it's fluctuations. Some of our visualizations include maps of corn 
and weather data as well as charts showing weather and price changes. 

Changes:
For the most part, we haven't changed much with our project. We are still focusing on corn and the prices with 
relation to weather. We added a few data sets like the US_GeoCode in order to find longitude and lattitude.
Initally we found a data set that contained corn futures. After cleaning it and processing it we discovered that
it only contains, for every day, ranges between highest and lower price instead of actual prices. This is importnat because if a price changes throughout the
market day but returns to the original price, the value contained in the dataset won't be 0. We ended up finding a new dataset that we plan to use in the future
that contains opening and closing prices as well as highest and lowest ones, alongside a couple other less relevant insights. 

Hypothesis:
For our hypothesis test we simply wanted to see if the 2024 avg. price of corn was greater than the 2000 avg. price. 
Our null hypothesis was that the 2024 price is less than or equal to the 2000 price, and our alternative one was that
the 2024 price is greater than the 2000 price. The test resulted in a T-statistic of 30.88
and a P-value of 5.27e-18. This value is extremely low compared to a confidence level of .05. As a reuslt we reject the null
hypothesis, concluding that the price of corn in 2024 is greater than in 2000, as expected. 

ML Analysis:



What is the hardest part of the project that you’ve encountered so far?
    The harderst part so far of the project has been finding data and deciding which 
    time intervals to use (days,months, years). The reason being because granular data doesn't necessarly
    show long term trends or correlations. On the other hand, aggregating the data to a yearly intervals can cause a loss
    of importnat nuances. We decided to balance the two and stick with monthly intervals for our weather
    in order to better represent our findings. 

What are your initial insights?
    A few insights that we have seen so far are that the major corn producers in the 
    United States are located in the Midwest, which includes the states Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska, and Minnesota.
    These states represent majortiy of the production of corn within the US, which means their supply has a
    significant relation to the price. We have also seen that the price of corn has been following an inconsistent yet significant upward trend since 2000. 
    Finally, from our ML we were able to see changes of prices when there was a greater than average difference in the weather for said month. 

Are there any concrete results you can show at this point? If not, why not?
    Yes our hypothesis test has shown that the price of corn has increased.
    In addition, our ML has shows changes in price in relation to big 
Going forward, what are the current biggest problems you’re facing?
    The biggest problem for us now will be to merge the new price dataset that we found. For the most part our logic will still be the same,
    and we will be able to see the trends of changes in prices more clearly.
Do you think you are on track with your project? If not, what parts do you need to
dedicate more time to?
    We believe that we are on track for our project. We have all out data sets and we have a structured baseline. What we need to dedicate more time to now is 
    creating a more complex analysis that ties all our data in together. As of now most of our analysis has been on indivudaul sets and then we mereged the prices in 
    together with the weather. Moving forward we will try to tie in monthly production into this, and possible predict the price depending on certain weather occurances. 

Given your initial exploration of the data, is it worth proceeding with your project,
why? If not, how are you going to change your project and why do you think it’s
better than your current results
    Yes we think it is worth proceeding with the project. The data and our initatl thoughts do show

